=pod

=head1 NAME

rpglectags - Creating ctags compatible files from RPGle files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<rpglectags>
[B<-f output>]
[B<--help>]
[B<--version>]
[F<files>]...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rpglectags> will create a ctags compatible file called 'tags'. This is work
in process.

The B<rpglectags> program generate an index (or "tag") file for rpgle objects
found in file(s). This tag file allows these items to be quickly and easily
located by a text editor or other utility. A "tag" signifies a language object
for which an index entry is available.

Tag index files are supported by a numerous editors, which allows the user to
locate the objects associated with a name appearing in a source file and jump to
the file and line which defines the name. Among other are:

    Vi(1), Vim(1), Sublime Text, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, ...

At the moment there is support for:

=over 4

=item B<Procedures>

Free format is supported though I<dcl-proc>.

Fixed format is supported though I<pxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxb>. Continues prodecure
names is also supported, i.e. I<pxxxxxx...\nd                 b>. Up to 7
leading spaces will be supported.

=item B<Prodecure interface>

Free format is supported though I<dcl-pi>.

Fixed format is supported though I<dxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxpi>. Continues declarations
is not supported. Up to 7 leading spaces will be supported.

=item B<Data structures>

Free format is supported though I<dcl-ds>.

Fixed format is supported though I<dxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxds>. Continues declarations
is not supported. Up to 7 leading spaces will be supported.

=item B<Stand alone and constant declarations>

Free format is supported though I<dcl-s> and I<dcl-c>.

Fixed format is supported though I<dxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxs> and
I<dxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxc>. Continues declarations is not supported. Up to 7
leading spaces will be supported.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-f> I<file>

Write tags til specified file. Value of '-' writes tags to stdout.
Default is 'tags'

=item B<-a>

Append the tags to an existing tag file

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print a summary of options and exit.

=item B<--version>

Print version information on standard output then exit successfully.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To create tags from the file 'test.rpgle', you'd use

    rpglectags test.rpgle

To create tags from all rpgle and sqlrpgle files recursively, you might say

    find . -type f \( -name '*.rpgle' -o -name '*.sqlrpgle' \) \
      -exec rpglectags {} +

More examples:

    rpglectags -o - test2.rpgle        # Print tags to stdout
    rpglectags -a test2.rpgle          # Append tags to the 'tags' file

=head1 TAG FILE FORMAT

Each entry in the tag file consists of a separate line, each looking like this
in the most general case:

    {tagname}<TAB>{tagfile}<TAB>{tagaddress};"<TAB>{tagfields}

The fields and seperators of these lines are specified as follows:

=over 4

=item B<1.>

Tag name

=item B<2.>

Single tab character

=item B<3.>

Name of the file in which the object associated with the tag is located

=item B<4.>

Single tab character

=item B<5.>

Tag address. A non B<magic> pattern enclosed in B</> or B<?> or a line number.

=item B<6.>

A constant ";"" for backward compatibility with vi(1)

=item B<7.>

Extra fields narrowing down the type of tag entry, i.e. kind:{fvms},
struct:nameOfStruct

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

ctags(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Andreas Louv <andreas@louv.dk>.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
